Hello everybody and welcome to this lecture.
We are taking a different path.
This is Michael from the future.
And after reading some of the comments and discussions we've had on the course itself some people are
finding if we do something different with the ears you get a better third distribution over the top
of them.
So I just want to run through what some of you have discovered as you've been going through this.
And one of the primary reasons for that difference is simply because when I'm doing my modelling you
don't you're doing yours.
We can end up with slightly different meshes so we will naturally end up with different results.
So we have our bunny.
As it stands here now what we can go ahead and do is have a look at these is insitu some are going to
go into edit mode now because we made the is even though they're separately and then we join them to
this mesh.
They can still be selected quite easily by using the L key.
It selects all the linked geometry someone to select both my ears now and delete them.
I'm just going to get rid of them completely.
And we're going to try making them using a different methodology so I'm going to go ahead and delete
those verses Okay so special thanks here to Alberto.
He's come up and discuss this in quite detail and worked out his own issues when it came to these is
he was ending up with some very patchy is.
So if I go ahead and add in a euv Sphere just here but I want to make sure I'm in object mode and not
edit mode.
I'm going to go ahead and add in uv's Sphere.
And we're going to have to do some stuff with that.
But would do that in a moment.
The first thing I'm going to do is go to the object itself and make sure it's named something appropriately.
In this case I'm going to call it is because we're going to leave them as a separate mesh object as
well.
Now this isn't going to be the model that I will continue through the rest of the lectures we have to
highlight there's always another way of doing something and it's not quite working out for you.
This may be the solution.
So we have this object is obviously far too large.
Now I'm going to have to remember to apply my scale in a bit.
But if I scale this down an end of place in the head roughly the right place scale in the x direction
they're just to squish it.
That's a reasonable start and I'm going to rotate it around the x axis as well so that the pole at the
very top is facing backwards a little and I'm going to take this moment and this opportunity to also
add a mirror modifier to it.
So I don't have to worry about the other ear as well we're going to be reflecting about the x axis which
is absolutely fine that's what we want to do but of course because it will be going around its own origin
we need to a mirror object.
In this case I'm going to use the rabbit.
There we go we've got that in the right place and now we're going to use proportional editing as well
just to help us out here.
So I'm going to go ahead into edit mode and select this very top vertex on the very top because it is
the very top vertex if I said that once more time.
Right.
I got that and I can go ahead and grab it.
And of course oh I have proportional it's internal but it's to the extreme at the moment.
But I don't want it and you see here with it turned on and just toned down a little I can stretch these
is up perhaps a little bit more than before.
Now it looks a bit odd something to undo that and I'm just going to try again and remember you don't
have to do this in one operation.
In this case I'm going to drag it up on the z axis.
First of all just get them roughly the right height.
In fact at this point it would be very prudent of me to jump into the side view and have a look at how
they're really looking.
Okay they're looking a bit on the small side there.
So I'm going to enlarge that again and lift it up.
Now the bottom bits here I do want them bulging out probably around this loop here so I'm going to scale
that loop out and again with proportional editing turned on.
There we go they're starting to look a bit better there.
So now we can grab this top vertex again and I'm going to pull over this time bringing out.
But once again with proportional editing turned on I can pull it out.
So it's just a bit more dynamic there.
And of course now we can think about where and how are we going to push that in.
Well we've got a series of edge loops that we can go ahead and grab here.
I'm going to actually grab a load of face loops.
I'm going to grow.
Or even.
Yeah that's you circle select in this case and just try and keep it going all the way up to May be there
or so.
And again there's always going to be more than one way of doing this.
I think that's a reasonable selection.
Yeah that looks good.
And then I can move those inwards.
And again with proportional editing turned on I can make sure that it only affects a small proportion
of them.
We've of course got to make sure we don't force geometry through itself.
Let's come out of there.
Switch the whole select everything here and then switch all this stuff to smooth shaving just to have
a different look at it.
So there we go.
There's some other is building up there.
And of course you can do about editing this to your heart's desire.
And for instance here I probably want that just a little bit wider side of scale on the y axis at any
point of course we can hop into cycles just to see what it looks like there.
And I'm not too happy with this edge around here but that may just because it's quite low poly at the
moment.
Again we can add in a subdivision surface modify and see if that smooths things out look so much better.
So that's what I think was going on there.
And you know you can build up this year to your heart's content.
Now the other thing that Alberto did mention is that when he was trying to join everything together
it still ended up being quite patchy so when it comes to applying the air the material the particle
system in a few moments where we set up the hairs when we start getting to that point you may decide
you want to leave the is a separate object and that's absolutely fine.
In this case that's not going to cause us any issues.
In fact in many cases it might make your life a bit easier when it comes to placing the years on here
now.
Finally I'm just going to lift all a says lift that's up make sure that only V is selected.
Lift those up and going to lift it up completely above and just finish this off by grabbing the bottom
virtex or thereabouts.
There we go grab the bottom one there and then I'm just going to pull it into the model.
But I'm going to make sure I grab enough of it is as well to pull them in.
There we go.
I like four way that's coming together.
Excellent so I just wanted to share the other option with you guys as Alberto did find it helped him
massively when it comes to the model itself.
Of course let's just have a quick look over our model here.
Just check a few things.
So the scale we could do with applying the scale there so let's go ahead and do that.
And we've got the eyeballs.
Let's have a look at the eyes.
They could also do with this scale being applied to them and the.
Of course we've scaled that initially when we grab the u v sphere and started manipulating them.
So I'll go ahead and apply the scale there as well.
Always remember to do that nice and early because if you go ahead and do it later on it can cause you
some issues.
And here just looking at it we can make these just a little bit wider.
There we go that looks a bit better.
Perfect.
Of course you can move them in position them out and do.
Oh that was forward position them out ever so slightly.
There we go.
Excellent.
Looking forward to seeing how you guys are getting a wanted to share this with you and I'll see you
all in the next lecture.